---
title: "Changelog: swc v1.1.4"
author: DongYoon Kang
authorURL: "http://github.com/kdy1"
authorFBID: 100024888122318
---

## loose mode

`swc` now has a loose mode, just like babel 2015 transform.
See [doc](/docs/configuring-swc#jscloose) for more detail.

## Lots of bug fix ([#489](https://github.com/swc-project/swc/pull/489))

I copied almost all tests from babel, and fixed lots of bugs.

### resolver pass

Resolver pass, along with hygiene and fixer, is core of the swc.

#### Handle object literals correctly

Previously, key of an object literal may interfere with outer identifiers. It means,

```js
let a = {
  b: "c"
};
use(b);
```

Second usage of `b` could be interfered by `b` in `a`. `swc` now hanldes it correctly.

### hygiene pass

#### Renaming of computed property name

Previously,

```js
class A {
  [key#1]: "foo";
  [key#2]: "bar";
}
```

(where #n is hygiene number)

was compiled to

```js
class A {
  [key]: "foo";
  [key]: "bar";
}
```

which results in a bug. It is now compiled as

```js
class A {
  [key]: "foo";
  [key1]: "bar";
}
```

### fixer pass

#### export default expression

The arrow expression lke

```js
export default arrow => foo;
```

and sequence expression like

```js
export default a, b, c;
```

is now wrapped with a parenthesis.

#### sequence expression in an arrow expression

Previously

```js
() => (a, b, c);
```

was compiled as

```js
() => a, b, c;
```

which is wrong.

`swc` now compiles it as

```js
() => (a, b, c);
```

### classes pass

#### Handle super accesses correctly

`swc` now handles all valid super accesses. It includes something strange like

```js
class Parent {}
class Outer extends Parent {
  constructor() {
    class Inner {
      [super()] = 1;
    }
  }
}
```

### computed_properties pass

#### Better codegen

```js
let foo = { a, [b]: c };
```

is now compiled as

```js
let((_ref = { a }), defineProperty(_ref, b, c), _ref);
```

instead of

```js
let((_ref = {}), defineProperty(_ref, a, a), defineProperty(_ref, b, c), _ref);
```

### destructuring pass

#### for-of, for-in loop support

From now, for-of loop and for-in are supported.

#### loose mode is here

If you want smaller output, you can turn on loose mode.

### for_of pass

#### assume_array mode is here

If you want smaller output, you can turn on assume_array by enabling loose mode.

#### labelled for loop is handled correctly

Previously, label was stripped out without any error message, and it resulted in a runtime error. `swc` now handles labaelled loops correctly.

### spread pass

#### loose mode is here

If you don't want `_toConsumableArray` in output, you can turn on loose mode.

### template_literal pass

#### Performance

`template_literal` pass become much more performant by removing redundant `.clone()`s.

#### Literal

The pass try it's best to reduce template literals into constant.

```js
let a = `${"foo"}bar`;
```

is compiled as

```js
let a = "foobar";
```

#### Caching

Functions generated for tagged template literals are cached. This behavior is same as it of babel.

### class_properties pass

#### Handle `this` inside static properties

`swc` can now handle

```js
class A {
  static f = 1;
}

class B extends A {
  static c = super.f;
}
```

#### Handle private field in complex assignment

`swc` can now handle

```js
class A {
  #f = 0;
  #g = 0;

  constructor() {
      ([#f, #g = 3] = [1, 2])
  }
}
```

#### Handle super access in properties

`swc` now can handle

```js
class A {
  f = 1;
}

class B extends A {
  c = super.f;
}
```

#### Handle complex super initialization

`swc` now can handle

```js
class A extends Parent {
  constructor() {
    class B extends (super(), Parent) {}
  }
}
```

### object rest spread pass

#### Computed key with side effect

`swc` can now handle complex object pattern like

```js
const { a, [key++]: b, ...c } = foo;
```

#### Destructuring null

```js
const {} = null;
```

now throws an error, instead of being silent.

### async_to_generator pass

#### Efficient handling of simple async functions

`swc` now emits minimal output for

```js
async () => await promise;
```

```js
async () => {
  await promise;
};
```

#### Correct number of parameters

`swc` now convert async functions in a way that preserves function.length.
